1 Fuel consumption The instant value related to fuel consumption
2 Accelerator Pedal value This sensor registers the movement of the accelerator 
pedal: Accelerator pedal opening angle percentage as 
determined by the accelerator position sensor. 
3 Throttle position signal The relative throttle position sensor is used to mon- 
itor the throttle position of a vehicle 
4 Short Term Fuel Trim Bank1 Fuel trims are the percentage of change in fuel over 
time in short term 
5 Intake air pressure This data is used to calculate air density and deter- 
mine the engine’s air mass ﬂow rate 
6 Filtered Accelerator Pedal value ECU’s ﬁltered accelerator pedal opening angle per- 
centage as determined by the accelerator position 
sensor. 
7 Absolute throttle position Actual position of the throttle 
8 Engine soacking time Duration of time a vehicle’s engine is at rest prior to 
being started. 
9 Inhibition of engine fuel cut oﬀ The fuel cut-oﬀ control system is responsive to a 
brake switch signal and an engine speed signal having 
a value above a fuel recovery threshold to decrease 
the value of a fuel cut-oﬀ threshold to again per- 
form the fuel cut-oﬀ even in the normal fuel recovery 
range. This value represents the inhibition of engine 
fuel cut oﬀ 
10 Engine in fuel cut oﬀ This value represents the inhibition of engine fuel cut 
oﬀ, i.e., fuel cut-oﬀ threshold. 
11 Fuel Pressure Eﬀective pressure is the actual applied pressure for 
the injector, and is the pressure diﬀerential across 
the injector. 
12 Long Term Fuel Trim Bank1 Fuel trims are the percentage of change in fuel over 
time in long term. 
13 Engine speed It is also called engine’s RPM, i.e., Revolutions Per 
Minute. In other words it is the number of revolu- 
tions the crankshaft makes per minute. 
14 Engine torque after correction The value after correcting the torque to which an 
engine is adjusted before a gear disengagement. 
15 Torque of friction Friction torque is the torque caused by the frictional 
force that occurs when two objects in contact move. 
16 Flywheel torque interventions The ﬂywheel stores energy when torque is applied 
by the energy source, and it releases stored energy 
when the energy source is not applying torque to it. 
The value represent the ﬂywheel torque after torque 
interventions. 
17 Current spark timing The time to set the angle relative to piston position 
and crankshaft angular velocity that a spark will oc- 
cur in the combustion chamber near the end of the 
compression stroke. 
18 Engine coolant temperature The temperature of the engine coolant of the internal 
combustion engine 
19 Engine Idle Target Speed The desired idle RPM in relation to coolant temp. 
20 Engine torque Engine torque is also related to the gearing. The 
lower the gear, greater is the pulling ability of an 
engine and hence greater the torque that this value 
represents. 
21 Calculated LOAD value This value indicates a percentage of peak available 
torque. 
22 Min indicated engine torque Minimum Engine torque value 
23 Max indicated engine torque Maximum Engine torque value 
24 Flywheel torque The value represent the ﬂywheel torque 
25 Torque scaling factor This value is described as how ﬂexible or how much 
force can be expressed in a given gear when the driver 
scales the gear. 
26 Standard Torque Ratio This value is described as how ﬂexible or how much 
force can be expressed in a given gear. 
27 Requested spark retard angle The transmission control unit (TCU) controls mod- 
ern electronic automatic transmissions. This value 
computes the requested spark retard angle from 
TCU. 
28 Requests engine torque limit This parameter monitors the request to engine 
torque limits (ETL) by TCU 
29 Requested engine RPM increase This parameter monitors the TCU requests related 
to the RPM engine increasing 
30 Target engine speed used 
in lock-up module 
It monitors the lock-up valve, used to shut oﬀ the 
signal pressure line of pneumatic actuators. 
31 Glow plug control request It monitors the request to check the glow plug 
32 Activation of Air compressor The value of the air compressor’s working. 
33 Torque converter speed A particular kind of ﬂuid coupling that is used to 
transfer rotating power from a prime mover 
34 Current Gear The engaged gear 
35 Transmission oil temperature The value of the temperature of the ﬂuid inside the 
transmission. 
36 Wheel velocity front left- 
hand 
The speed of the front left hand wheel 
37 Wheel velocity rear right- 
hand 
The speed of the rear right hand wheel 
38 Wheel velocity front right- 
hand 
The speed of the front right hand wheel 
39 Wheel velocity rear left-hand The speed of the rear left hand wheel 
40 Torque converter turbine speed - 
Unﬁltered 
A torque converter is a type of ﬂuid coupling that is 
used to transfer rotating power from a prime mover, 
such as an internal turbines in this case. 
41 Clutch operation acknowledge It is responsible to signalize when a clutch operation 
happens. 
42 Converter clutch It is responsible for activating the torque converter 
clutch to prevent slipping at highway speeds 
43 Gear Selection It represents the gear selected by the sensor 
44 Vehicle speed It represents the current speed of the vehicle 
45 Acceleration speed - 
Longitudinal 
It represents the value related to the acceleration 
speed longitudinal 
46 Indication of brake 
switch ON/OFF 
It indicates whether the brake indication is on or oﬀ 
47 Master cylinder pressure The pressure of the master cylinder, a control device 
that converts non-hydraulic pressure into hydraulic 
one. 
48 Calculated road gradient This value computes the slope of the currently trav- 
eled road 
49 Acceleration speed - Lateral It consists in the acceleration value that a curving 
car manifest 
50 Steering wheel speed This value represents the wheel speed when steering 
51 Steering wheel angle This value represents the wheel angle when steering 